---
layout: project
title: "IBM"
title-color: blue
order: 1
color: blue
link:
    label: ibm.com
    href: http://ibm.com
logo:
    img: http://i.imgur.com/KMw5dMD.jpg
---

# <span class="text--blue">May 2015</span> a young man graduates from Texas A&M

I applied for a lot of jobs outside of school and interviewed with some of the
best companies a young computer engineer could hope to work for.

Eventually, I found myself at [IBM Design](http://ibm.com/design).  
{: .s}

## Project Whitewater

Although I was a college hire, I skipped the three months on boarding Design
Bootcamp. I jumped straight onto Project Whitewater, where I was thrown directly
into the deep end of being the only developer on a team expected to ship a
working product by the end of the following month.

I would come to stay on the team for a year and a half, seeing it grow from one
developer to a team of 6 core engineers a team of sight reliability engineers
and supporting over 2200 IBM teams.

The idea behind Project Whitewater was/is simple. To create a culture of the
best modern practices, leveraging best in class collaboration and development
tools that support whole team development.

What looked in practice was building out a landing page to funnel traffic,
an administrative experience for managers and team members to find one another,
a guided practice platform for people to learn ways to improve their workflow,
a microservice architecture to manage linces across external & internal tools
and IBM internal finance apis, building a sass framework to consolidate Design
across support, marketing, and core squads on the team, we also did a lot of things
with travis, build tools, and analytics.

## Working at IBM

Working at IBM Design was a lot of fun. The design studio is two stories (and growing)
of IBM's Austin campus. All of the desks are white, in an open space,
The floor is either stained concrete or carpet, large meeting areas are surounded
by white boards that can slide to anywhere along the paremeter. I would like to
think that I had a positive impact on the culture of the studio while I was there.

I helped establish an internal radio station for the studio, and attended and
gave talks at internal front end developer meet ups.

## Leaving IBM

There were several reasons for leaving IBM, the biggest being an urge I've had
to build a company that can have a positive impact on the world, I wanted to see
if I had what it takes to support myself as a freelancer, and personal matters
that nudged me to take the pludge out on my own.

[And now I'm a freelance engineer](http://imdevan.com/blog/going-freelance/)
