---
layout: project
title: "Hola"
description: Project Hola, Hack The Planet 2015.
color: seafoam
link:
    label: View on Github
    href: https://github.com/imdevan/hola
logo:
    img: http://i.imgur.com/YJawSMR.jpg
---

<a href="https://github.com/imdevan/hola" class="base--a">Hola</a> was created at <a href="http://mlh.io" class="base--a">MLH</a>'s first self hosted hackathon in Mountain View, California. The won 4th out of 100+ teams.

The intent behind the app was to enable people to be able to learn a language even if no one one else in their social circle was able to speak that language. We were able to successfully implement a working prototype with several different languages, such as Spanish, French, and German.

The way that the app worked was by having the user write and receive messages in
whichever language they are trying to learn, and translating to and from their
native language so that when they have converstions with their friends or family
they can still practice learning anothe language.

We used the [MyMemory](mymemory.translated.net) translation
service to translate between languages, which first checks community generated
databases to see if a phrase has been translated by a human before defaulting to
Google, and Bing's translation service under the hood.

We used the Twilio real-time messaging api to send and receive messages between
users and their contacts.

We used Socket.io for passing messages to and from the server in real time.

My role on the project was to create the front end architecture and handle all
messages sent to and from the client, as well as designing the user experience.
  
